[Music]
should start up bother with seo hey i'm
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business growth show if you
haven't yet check out my weekly email
where i share actual marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides resources
bonuses and much much more to start your
week off with a bang each and every
monday sign up today over at business
growth dot email so seo search engine
optimization the process of getting your
website so that all important page one
top spot in google's organic non-paid
search results
should a new business should a startup
really consider it well before we get to
that i want to share a quick story which
i have shared briefly in podcasts before
so when we started the company some
years ago
didn't have a customer base right
so
there was a few things that i knew
because of my background in marketing
and digital marketing and technology
working at marketing companies before i
knew that seo was important i knew it
was a long term play because of my
experience where i'd worked at other
companies so i knew we had to get a
straightforward website up we had to in
this case employ an seo company because
we didn't do that ourselves at the stage
at that stage in time
and pay them a little bit on a basic
plan a few hundred quid a month not much
at all to just do some basic on-site
content creation and off-site content
creation distributing those articles
blog articles onto different sites and
building up some backlinks i knew over
time that would ramp up and we would
eventually in six to 12 months get some
traffic and get some inbound leads over
time
whilst that was going on whilst we
invested the small amount of money we
did have into seo
the only other way i was generating
appointments
bookings leads
was through cold calling so targeted
businesses that looked like a good fit
for our offering
called them up sweated away at my desk
booking meetings
cold calling reaching out to decision
makers
providing the problems that we helped
them fix and looking to set up
appointments so yeah that was hard work
that was quite a struggle it's not the
most fun thing cold calling cold
outreach but it is a quick route to
market in terms of you can
reach the people you want to chat to and
set up meetings so why did i give you
that background
well
what happened with us was because of the
limited funds and resources we had at
the early stages of the business
there was only a few ways that we could
get to market
so we knew about the benefits of seo
long term but we knew we had to get
meetings short term so we set up cold
outreach
and
as we eventually generated revenue
through the meetings turning into closed
one deals
and through seo eventually bringing in
inbound leads as the months followed
that we were able to convert into again
one projects enclosed deals in revenue
then we were able to invest more into
things like paid ads as a shorter term
way to drive traffic and inquiries to
our site
we were able to beef up ramp up redesign
our website make it more of a useful
resource ramp up the seo on site in
terms of the content the layout improve
the design the navigation the structure
and invest more in off-site seo so
creating content distributing it
building backlinks and really ramping up
our presence on google our organic
traffic for the main things you want to
sell so if you're a startup with
somewhat limited cash
funds or resources or even team members
in-house then you might want to consider
things like using existing contacts
to reach out to them talk about how your
product or service helps the problem it
fixes
how you're growing businesses with your
services and generating appointments
that way perhaps you've got past
customers past clients that you've
served other companies that again you
can reach out to you've already got
trust reputation rapport with them so
you can again introduce how you help the
problems you fix and see if there's a
fit for you to do some business
if you're b2b
sites like linkedin are amazing for
reaching out to customers that fit your
idle customer profile searching for them
connecting with them putting out content
linkedin's got an amazing organic reach
when you post content so being found by
other potential customers building up
your personal brand long term starting
conversations building relationships
that way all those three ways are free
and simple ways to to generate customers
and route to market and then you might
want to consider doing cold outreach
whether that is cold calling networking
on sites like linkedin whether that's
cold email different rays of outreach
you might use other social channels like
facebook or search if you're more b2c
and then building up that all-important
initial revenue stream so once you've
got customers once you've got payments
and money coming in then you can look
into seo as a long-term way to drive
traffic to your website and drive
inbound sales leads and then you can
even look at things like paid ads to
ramp that up and work alongside seo and
on the flip side if you're a startup but
you've got funding or perhaps you've got
the resources you've got the team
in-house then seo makes sense right
because you've got the cash there or
you've got the people on your team to
build a quality website that first of
all is going to clearly show what you do
how you help it's going to be a useful
resource which is going to impact the
seo through the information pages
perhaps blog articles perhaps you've got
resources guides video podcasts all
complement the key services that you
offer and really educate people at
different stages throughout the sales
process from at the top of the sales
funnel right through to the bottom of
the sales funnel ready to buy
and then you can invest in things like
making sure the website on site
technical seo is all good in terms of
the structure your website page speed
navigation all these good things that
impact your on-site on-page seo and then
you can invest in off-site seo right so
you can look at things like content
creation so creating useful blog
articles resources press releases
posting them on in the industry relevant
sites building quality backlinks and
over time
building up your organic rankings for
the main search terms that you want to
drive sales leads and inbound revenue
for so right now webchoice our number
one source our channel for generating
inbound sales leads is seo followed by
paid ads at number two and then linkedin
at number three just through the daily
content the tips the advice on websites
and seo that i share that each and every
day and some other channels that drive
inbound of the podcast the videos we put
out our email list network and referrals
of course
so your company might be in a similar
position to where we were perhaps you're
low on funds resources so to start with
maybe you look at things like how can i
leverage my network my contacts
my past clients maybe i'm going to look
at doing things that are absolutely free
of charge just need my time like
leveraging linkedin starting a podcast
starting video series to build up that
long term and then once the revenue's
there you can look to sort a decent
educational helpful lead generating
website and setting up an seo strategy
for long-term results so to summarize
seo is a fantastic long-term strategy
when it comes to getting your website
visible building up your brand
reputation and most importantly getting
people that have got buying intent that
can see your services or your products
on page one of google when they need
your help so they click through onto
your website and then either get in
touch with you if you want to generate a
lead or make that all important purchase
so you need to think about how important
that long-term strategy is for your
business what resources you can invest
into it now
or likewise if you need to need to
employ a separate company or person to
help you out with it
hope you've enjoyed this episode hope
you found the tips of use as always if
you're tuning in from the audio podcast
a quick rating lifestyle review very
very much appreciated or if you're on
youtube a quick subscribe i'd be very
very thankful for
and with that i shall catch you on the
next one cheers